ECOMMERCE STORE EDA ANALYSIS
DOCUMENTATION
This project aims at analyzing customers purchase behavior and preferences. To verify its’s trends and seasonality’s in the store sales overtime. It also demands to know the customers performance across different age categories, enhance their decision, making and providing actionable insight to optimize marketing strategies, inventory management, customer engagement and business growth.
Data Analysis:
i.	Sales Distribution: Customers with no preference appeared more.
ii.	Customer Demographic: The younger age buys more with 54%

 Bivariate Analysis:
iii.	Sales Trend: From my findings, I noticed that Jewelries sale more and for this, there can be more adverts during the Festive, Ramadan season and valentine Season.
i.	
ii.	Category performance: Jewelries, Gardening, Accessories and outdoor.
Visualization:
This dashboard is designed to analyze customers trends based on review and rating for better product development. Optimizing price strategies by evaluating the relationship between discount and customer response. Enhance data-driven insight for sales planning and profitability.  
Insights and recommendation: 
i.	Identification of key trends in customers shopping behavior shows that love discount and low rate as this motivates them to buy more. My recommendation here would be that free shipping or delivery along routes for some days in the week can be adopted to encourage more purchase.
ii.	Insight into customers segments by the age grouping shows the younger age drive sales, allowing for targeted marketing strategies. I would recommend more social media adverts doen across platforms to attract a larger crowd.
iii.	Product performance across the two age categories we have worked with from the data shows that younger age had more purchase. I would recommend the store should stockpile on more ladies’ items and for the young age also.
iv.	

Conclusion:
These findings provide valuable insights into customer preference product with lower rates which is very common among Jewelries, Gardening, Accessories and outdoor. Performance for dissatisfied customers can also affect the ecommerce store to optimize its operations, marketing strategies and enhance customer experience. With the above insights, stakeholders can make informed decisions at drive growth and profitability of the store.

